Documentation for 2FA (#1482)
kartoza/sawps: docs/src/user/manual/register/setup-2fa.md

> # Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Setup Guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Setup Page
```

## Introduction

Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) is an added layer of security designed to ensure the security of people utilising the online platform. SAWPS values the security of user's account and data. This page is an explanation of the various elements of the 2FA page users see when they register on the platform.

## Prerequisites

Before begin setting up 2FA, users should ensure that they have the following:

* A smartphone or tablet with a compatible authenticator app installed (e.g., Google Authenticator).

![TWO-FACTOR-AUTHENTICATION](./img/setup-2fa-1.png)

1. **Two-Factor Authentication**: Users can generate and verify the token on this page.

2. **Step 1**: Users will see a QR code displayed on the screen that they can scan using their preferred authenticator application.
3. **Step 2**: The `Token` field is where users should type in the 6-digit token (generated by their authenticator application) that is associated with the account they are registering.
4. **VERIFY**: Users can verify the token using the `VERIFY` button. Upon successful verification, Two-Factor Authentication will be enabled for SAWPS account and the user will be redirected to continue registering.

> # Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Once Verify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Once Verified
```

> Once users have successfully verified the 2FA, they will able to add device, delete device and generate backup tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once users have successfully verified the 2FA, they will be able to add device, delete device and generate backup tokens.
```

![Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Once Verify](./img/setup-2fa-2.png)

1. **Two-factor authentication method**: Displays the method used for the 2FA.

2. **Two-factor authentication devices**: The two-factor authentication devices table displays the names of devices and the delete icon to delete the specific device.

    ![Two-factor authentication devices table](./img/setup-2fa-5.png)

    1. **Device Name**: Displays name of added devices.

    2. **Delete Icon**: Users can delete the specific device by clicking on the delete icon.

        By clicking on the delete icon users will see popup for confirming the deletion of a device.

        ![Delete Confirmation](./img/setup-2fa-6.png)

        1. The `CANCEL` button is used to cancel the device deletion.

        2. The `DELETE` button is used to delete the device.

3. Click on the `ADD DEVICE` button to add a new device. By clicking on the button users will see the popup to add new device.

    ![Add Device](./img/setup-2fa-3.png)

    1. **Device Name**: Input field to add device name.

>     2. *By clicking on the `ADD` button users will be shown a popup for scanning the QR code. Users can scan QR code to generate token for new added device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. *By clicking on the `ADD` button users will be shown a popup for scanning the QR code. Users can scan the QR code to generate a token for a newly added device.
```

        ![QR Scan](./img/setup-2fa-4.png)

        1. **QR Code**: to be scanned to generate a token.

        2. `CLOSE` button to close the popup.

    3. **Cancel**: `CANCEL` button to cancel the process of adding a new device.

4. **Two-factor authentication recovery tokens**: Information text for token generation.

5. **`GENERATE BACKUP TOKENS`**: By clicking on this button users can generate their recovery tokens.

6. The `PROFILE` navigation link navigates to the [profile page](../user-profile/profile-page.md).

7. The `REMINDERS` navigation link navigates to the [reminders page](../user-profile/reminders.md).

8. The `NOTIFICATIONS` navigation link navigates to the [notification page](../user-profile/notifications.md).

9. The `ORGANISATIONS` navigation link navigates to the [organisation page](../user-profile/organisation-page.md) for registered users.

## Using Two-Factor Authentication

> When users log in to SAWPS account, they will be prompted to enter the six-digit token generated by the user's authenticator application in addition to their regular login credentials. This extra layer of security will help protect the user's account from unauthorized access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When users log in to their SAWPS account, they will be prompted to enter the six-digit token generated by the user's authenticator application in addition to their regular login credentials. This extra layer of security will help protect the user's account from unauthorized access.
```

## Prerequisites

Before begin setting up 2FA, make sure you have the following:

* A smartphone or tablet with a compatible authenticator app installed (e.g., Google Authenticator).

![TWO-FACTOR-AUTHENTICATION](./img/setup-2fa-1.png)

1. **Two-Factor Authentication**: User can generate and verify token on this page.

2. **Step 1**: Scan the QR Code

    * User will see a QR code displayed on the screen.
    * Open authenticator app on mobile device.
    * Tap the option to add a new account or scan a QR code.
    * Use device's camera to scan the QR code displayed on the screen.
    * The authenticator app will now generate one-time codes for SAWPS account.

3. **Step 2**: Input the Token

    * After scanning the QR code, user will see user's SAWPS account added to your authenticator app.
    * The app will continuously generate six-digit codes that change every 30 seconds.
    * To enable 2FA, user need to input a generated token from the app.
    * Input the current six-digit token generated by authenticator app into the input field named `Token`.

> 4. **VERIFY**: User can verify token using the `VERIFY` button. Upon successful verification, Two-Factor Authentication will be enabled for SAWPS account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **VERIFY**: Users can verify the token using the `VERIFY` button. Upon successful verification, Two-Factor Authentication will be enabled for SAWPS account and the user will be redirected to continue registering.
```

# Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Once Verify

Once user will successfully verify the 2FA, user will able to add device, delete device and generate backop tokens.

![Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Once Verify](./img/setup-2fa-2.png)

1. **Two-factor authentication method**: Displays the mathod used for the 2FA.

> 2. **Two-factor authentication devices**: Two-factor authentication devices table displays names of devices and delete icon to delete the specific device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Two-factor authentication devices**: The two-factor authentication devices table displays the names of devices and the delete icon to delete the specific device.
```

    ![Two-factor authentication devices table](./img/setup-2fa-5.png)

    1. **Device Name**: Displays name of added devices.

>     2. **Delete Icon**: User can delete the specific device by clicking on the delete icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. **Delete Icon**: Users can delete the specific device by clicking on the delete icon.
```

>         By clicking on the delete icon user will see popup for device delete confirmation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        By clicking on the delete icon users will see popup for confirming the deletion of a device.
```

        ![Delete Confirmation](./img/setup-2fa-6.png)

>         1. **Cancel**: `CANCEL` button to cancel device deletion.
> 
>         2. **Delete**: `DELETE` button to delete device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        1. The `CANCEL` button is used to cancel the device deletion.

        2. The `DELETE` button is used to delete the device.
```

> 3. **Add Device**: `ADD DEVICE` button to add new device. By clicking on the `ADD DEVICE` button user will see the popup to add new device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click on the `ADD DEVICE` button to add a new device. By clicking on the button users will see the popup to add new device.
```

    ![Add Device](./img/setup-2fa-3.png)

>     1. **Device Name**: Input field to insert device name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. **Device Name**: Input field to add device name.
```

>     2. **ADD**: `ADD` button to add new device.
> 
>         ![QR Scan](./img/setup-2fa-4.png)
> 
>         By clicking on the `ADD` button user will see popup for scaning the QR code. Scan QR code to generate token for new added device.
> 
>         1. **QR Code**: QR code to scan and generate token.
> 
>         2. **Close**: `CLOSE` button to close the popup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. *By clicking on the `ADD` button users will be shown a popup for scanning the QR code. Users can scan QR code to generate token for new added device.

        ![QR Scan](./img/setup-2fa-4.png)

        1. **QR Code**: to be scanned to generate a token.

        2. `CLOSE` button to close the popup.
```

>     3. **Cancel**: `CANCEL` button to cancel adding new device process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. **Cancel**: `CANCEL` button to cancel the process of adding a new device.
```

4. **Two-factor authentication recovery tokens**: Information text for token generation.

> 5. **Generate Backup Tokens**: By clicking on the `GENERATE BACKUP TOKENS` button user can generate tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **`GENERATE BACKUP TOKENS`**: By clicking on this button users can generate their recovery tokens.
```

> 6. **Profile**: The `PROFILE` navigation link navigates to the [profile page](../user-profile/profile-page.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. The `PROFILE` navigation link navigates to the [profile page](../user-profile/profile-page.md).
```

> 7. **Reminders**: The `REMINDERS` navigation link navigates to the [reminders page](../user-profile/reminders.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. The `REMINDERS` navigation link navigates to the [reminders page](../user-profile/reminders.md).
```

> 8. **Notifications**:  The `NOTIFICATIONS` navigation link navigates to the [notification page](../user-profile/notifications.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. The `NOTIFICATIONS` navigation link navigates to the [notification page](../user-profile/notifications.md).
```

> 9. **Organisations**: The `ORGANISATIONS` navigation link navigates to the [organisation page](../user-profile/organisation-page.md) for registered users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. The `ORGANISATIONS` navigation link navigates to the [organisation page](../user-profile/organisation-page.md) for registered users.
```

## Using Two-Factor Authentication

> From now on, when user log in to SAWPS account, user will be prompted to enter the six-digit token generated by user's authenticator app in addition to user's regular login credentials. This extra layer of security will help protect user's account from unauthorized access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When users log in to SAWPS account, they will be prompted to enter the six-digit token generated by the user's authenticator application in addition to their regular login credentials. This extra layer of security will help protect the user's account from unauthorized access.
```

> ## Conclusion
> 
> Congratulations! You have successfully set up Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) for your SAWPS account, enhancing the security of your data and account. If you encounter any issues during the setup process, please reach out to our support team for assistance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If users encounter any issues during the setup process, they should reach out to the support team for assistance.
```
